The governments decision to abolish Rs 500 and Rs 1000  notes and replace them with new currency to crack down on black money could impact the economy in the near term, say analysts
With people rushing to deposit old notes in banks, fixed deposit rates, which have also fallen sharply since the past two years, are likely to slip further
West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee called it  a drama .  The PM could not get back the promised black money from abroad from the rich so a drama to divert his failure   she tweeted.  I want to know from PM how my poorest brothers sisters, who've received their weeks hard earned wage in one 500 rupee note will buy atta, chai tomorrow? Heartless and ill- conceived blow on the common people and the middle class in the fake name of anti-corruption,  Ms. Banerjee tweeted
Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav tweeted    Positive move against counterfeit currency. Govt overplaying impact on black money. Opposition overplaying transitional problems
C.S. Ghosh, CEO and Founder, Bandhan Bank    The decision would cause problems to small traders and common public
Demonetisation    33 deaths since government scrapped Rs 500, Rs 1000 notes   
As lines outside banks and ATMs continue to grow, the death toll rises as well.   
Long queues outside banks and ATMs have become a common sight following PM Narendra Modis announcement to demonetise Rs 500 and Rs 1000  notes.
In the past week since the central government scrapped Rs 500 and Rs 1000  notes in a bid to weed out black money, 33 deaths have been reported across the country that can be directly or indirectly linked to the sudden demonetisation move.
While a few deaths have been out of shock, as alleged by the families of the deceased, some deaths are claimed to be owing to exhaustion after standing for long hours in serpentine queues. There have also been reports of suicide and even a murder over demonetisation in West Bengal.   
 On Wednesday, too, chaotic scenes and long queues were seen outside banks and ATMs across the country as people rushed to withdraw or exchange notes to pay their every day bills.
WATCH VIDEO    Demonetisation    Heres How It Affects Kerala Estate Workers 
Here is a list of the reported deaths since the demonetisation was announced      
Four days before his daughters wedding, Sukhdev Singh died of a heart attack in Tarn Taran, Punjab, as he was unable to buy groceries and other items due to shortage of new currency notes.   
A 17 year old BSF Jawans son committed suicide in Bulandshahr, Uttar Pradesh, after his mother refused to give him smaller value notes.   
A two year old died in Sambhalpur, Odisha, after an autorickshaw driver refused to take the family to hospital as they did not have lower denomination notes to pay the fare.   
Lakshminarayana, 75, collapsed and was declared dead while waiting in a queue for over two hours outside a bank in Secunderabad, Telangana.   
Surendra Sharma, a senior citizen from Aurangabad, Bihar, died while waiting in a bank queue.  
Halke Lodhi, a farmer in Chhatarpur district of Madhya Pradesh, committed suicide as he did not have money to buy fertilisers and seeds.   
60 year old Aziz Ansari, a factory worker in Meerut, died of a heart attack while waiting outside a bank.   
A retired school teacher, Raghunath Verma  70  , in Jalaun, eastern Uttar Pradesh, died waiting outside a bank.
He went to withdraw money for meeting the marriage expenses of his daughter.   
In a Bulandshahr hospital, a child died because the parents had only old currency notes.   
24 year old Rizwana from north east Delhi hanged herself as she was upset about not being able to exchange currency for three days.   
Unable to buy groceries to feed her family, a 50 year old Surat woman committed suicide.   
Shabana, a 20 year old woman from Shamli  west UP  , committed suicide after her brother returned home without exchanging currency notes.   
A middle-aged  woman from Chikballapur district of Karnataka committed suicide after the Rs 15000 she had taken to the bank for exchange were allegedly lost or stolen.   
A farmer from Raigarh, Chhattisgarh committed suicide as he was upset over not being able to exchange Rs 3000, which he was supposed to send to his stranded children in Tamil Nadu.   
A 69 year old man collapsed and died of heart attack after waiting in a queue to exchange currency notes outside a bank in Limbdi, Gujarat.   
WATCH VIDEO    Demonetisation    Select Petrol Pumps To Dispense Cash Up To Rs 2000   
An elderly woman in Kanpur died while counting her notes.   

A Kanpur man, who had received Rs 70 lakh in advance for selling his land, died of a heart attack while watching PM Narendra Modis speech announcing demonetisation.   
In Mumbai, a sick newborn child died after a hospital refused admission as the parents didnt have legal tender.   
An 18 month old baby died in Visakhapatnam as the parents didnt have money to buy medicines after a private hospital had refused old currency notes.   
A one year old boy suffering from high fever in Mainpuri, Uttar Pradesh, died after doctors stopped treating him as his parents ran out of Rs 100 notes.   
A newborn baby died in Rajasthans Pali district after an ambulance refused to take the child to a hospital as the father couldn’t arrange Rs 100 notes on time.   
A 40 year old washerwoman in Kushinagar, Uttar Pradesh, died of shock on allegedly learning that banks  will not accept denominations of Rs 1000 .   
A 55 year old home maker in Mahubabad district of Telangana, committed suicide because she thought her cash savings of Rs 54 lakh were now worthless.   
A man from Howrah, West Bengal killed his wife after she came home emptyhanded from an ATM.   
A 45 year old man from Kaimur district of Bihar died of a massive heart attack as he feared that his daughters would be in laws may no longer accept dowry in old currency notes.   
A 45 year old from Thalassery, Kerala died after falling from the second floor while filling the deposit slip. He had gone to deposit Rs 5 lakh.   
A 72 year old man from Mumbai died of a massive heart attack while waiting to deposit old currency notes at a bank.   
A 47 year old-farmer, who had to pay for farm labour, died of heart attack while waiting to exchange old currency notes in Tarapur, Gujarat.   
Having waited for an hour in a queue, a 75 year old man in Alappuzha, Kerala collapsed and died outside a bank.   
A 96 year old man died waiting in a queue at a bank in Udupi, Karnataka, which was yet to open for the day.   
A 69 year old retired BSNL employee died waiting in a queue at a bank in Sagar, Madhya Pradesh to exchange currency notes.   
A State Bank of India cashier in Bhopal died of heart attack.   
Soon after watching PMs announcement of demonetisation, a businessman in Faizabad, Uttar Pradesh died after he complained of chest pain.   
The GDP formation could be impacted by this measure, with reduction in the consumption demand.   
However with the recent rise in festival demand is expected to offset this fall in overall impact.
Yes, Demonetisation will slow down growth rate in short term and medium term because people have less money in hands. So demand is low, that is why it is hampering our growth rate. But as soon as people get money, markets will be back on track.   
But its long term gain is fictional or say disputed. Some people theoretically says it will benefit the economy as government will have more revenue but others say giving a electric shock to the economy when its already under distress business sentiment can send it into coma.   
India is a cash based economy and demonetization will temporarily decrease liquidity in this economy. Decreased liquidity will lead to decreased demand which will result in decreased productivity causing a slowdown in consumer market.   
People have panicked due to sudden demonetization. This will force them to save and store more money. Thus, a decrease in demand leading to slowdown in consumer market.   
The Indian Supreme Court while hearing one among a slew of cases filed against the sudden demonetisation decision in various courts observed that it "appears to be carpet bombing and not surgical strike" which government repeatedly claims it to be
severely criticised the demonetisation move calling it a "despotic action" among other things.
Pronab Sen, former Chief Statistician and Planning Commission of India member, called it a hollow move. since it did not really address any of the purported goals of tackling black money or fake currency
Prabhat Patnaik, a former professor of economics at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi called the move witless and anti people. He criticised the simple way in which black money was assumed as "a hoard of cash"
Noted economist and journalist, T. N. Ninan wrote in the Business Standard that demonetisation looks like a bad idea, badly executed on the basis of some half-baked notions'
have criticised and led major protests against the decision in their states and in parliament. Initially, the move to demonetise and try to hinder black money was appreciated, but the manner in which it was carried out by causing hardships to common people was criticised.[134] A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) was filed in Madras High Court by M Seeni Ahamed, General Secretary of the Indian National League, to scrap the decision. The High Court dismissed the PIL stating that it could not interfere in monetary policies of the government.Similar PILs were also filed in the Supreme Court of India
Nobel laureate Paul Krugman said that it is difficult to see gains from demonetisation, while there may be significant costs to it
The Harvard Business Review called it a case study in poor policy and even poorer execution. The frequent change in the narrative on objectives of the demonetisation to its visible impact on the poorest of the poor made other critiques calling government's narrative as spins in view of the "pointless suffering on India's poorest.
article in The Guardian stated that Modi has brought havoc to India

Steve Forbes described the move as Sickening And Immoral. He stated that What India has done is commit a massive theft of peoples property without even the pretense of due process a shocking move for a democratically elected government
Several government ministers had declared before the demonetisation that they were holding large amounts of cash, including Arun Jaitley, who had more than 65 lakh rupees in cash. This led to speculation about whether and when the ministers had deposited the cash they held.
The demonetisation also came in for sharp criticism from media outside India with the New York Times saying that the demonetisation was "atrociously planned" and that it did not appear to have combatted black money
A Parliamentary panel report in April 2017 stated that rural households and honest taxpayers were the worst hit by demonetisation. It said that it was not just the poor that suffered, but the manufacturing sector was impacted too. According to the panel, demonetisation created significant disruption throughout economy, because it was carried out without prior study or research
On 16 November 2016, Banerjee led a rainbow delegation comprising political parties of Trinamool Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, BJP ally Shiv Sena, Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (of Hardik Patel) and National Conference to Rashtrapati Bhawan to protest against the decision to withdraw the ?500 and ?1000 banknotes. A memorandum was submitted to the President of IndiaPranab Mukherjee demanding rollback of the decision.[160] Outside the Parliament in a rally the same day, Saugata Roy, a member of parliament from the opposition Trinamool Congress Party, commented, "People are in utter distress, especially the informal sector is totally disrupted. Poor people, daily wage earners, they're all facing difficulty."
only 6 percent of black money in India is in cash to drive his point that demonetisation won't curb illicit wealth
On 17 November 2016, in a rally against demonetisation of ?500 and ?1000 notes, led by the Chief Minister of DelhiArvind Kejriwal and his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee at Azadpur Mandi, the biggest vegetable and fruits wholesale hub in the national capital; Kejriwal demanded the withdrawal of demonetisation in 3 days. Banerjee also stated I give the government 3 day ultimatum, fix things or withdraw the demonetisation scheme".
In the demonetisation debate on the second and third day of the Winter Session of Parliament, on 17 and 18 November 2016, the opposition and the government clashed over the demonetisation issue, bringing the house to continuous halts  
On 24 November 2016, in the demonetisation debate, the former prime minister of IndiaManmohan Singh said this scheme will hurt small industries, the farming sector. The GDP can decline by about 3 per cent due to this move, while he also questioned I would like to ask the Prime Minister examples of countries where people have deposited their money in the banks and not allowed to withdraw their own money. and later also said It is no good that on each day banks bring out new notifications. It doesn't reflect properly on Prime Minister's Office, Finance Minister and the Reserve Bank of India. Cooperative banking system has been prevented from handling cash .Singh at last termed the demonetisation move as an organised loot, legalised plunder of the common people   
The Congress party has decided to launch a nationwide movement to expose the biggest scam of independent India, said spokesperson leader Randeep Surjewala on 31 December 2016. The first phase would take place from January 1 to 10, second phase from January 11 to20 and third phase from January 20 to 30.   
A State Bank of India branch remained open at night, and a long queue of people waited outside the ATM to withdraw money  
The scarcity of cash due to demonetisation led to chaos, and most people holding old banknotes faced difficulties exchanging them due to endless queues outside banks and ATMs across India, which became a daily routine for millions of people waiting to deposit or exchange the Rs 500 and Rs 1000 banknotes since 9 November.and a ration shop was looted in Madhya Pradesh after the shop owner refused to accept Rs 500 banknotes.
The CMD of Punjab National Bank said that panic after demonetisation started on 19 November 2016

After peaking in December 2016, digital transactions declined from January 2017 onwards, thus thwarting the objective of increasing digital payments through demonetisation
Global analysts cut their forecasts of India's GDP growth rate for the financial year 2016 17 by 0.5 to 3 percent due to demonetisation
India's GDP growth for the quarter Jan to Mar 2017 was 6.1 percent as against a forecast of 7.1 percent by economists
This drop in GDP was attributed to demonetisation by economists
The GDP growth rate for the quarter April to June 2017 dropped to 5.7 percent
Drop in industrial output
There was a reduction in industrial output as industries were hit by the cash crisis
he Purchasing Managers Index fell to 46.7 in November from 54.5 in October, recording its sharpest reduction in three years
A reading above 50 indicates growth and a reading below shows contraction. This indicates a slowdown in both, manufacturing and services industries
The PMI report showed also showed that the reduction in inflation in November was due to shortage in money supply 
The growth in eight core sectors such as cement, steel and refinery products, which constitute 38 percent of the Index of Industrial Production , was only to 4.9 percent in November as compared with 6.6 percent in October
 There was a loss of jobs due to demonetisation, particularly in the unorganised and informal sector and in small enterprises
Labour union jobs were crashed
A jewellery store in a shopping mall with a notice We accept Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes, even after they were no longer valid banknotes
India could well lose its world's fastest growing economy tag
This is so because real estate, gold and the informal sectors that see a high element of cash transactions are expected to slow down, according to India Ratings
The sudden decline in money supply and a simultaneous increase in bank deposits is going to adversely impact consumption demand in the economy in the short term. 
This coupled with the adverse impact on real estate and construction and informal sectors may lead to lowering of GDP growth
It also said that the decision also needed to be seen in the context of disappointing response to the Income Declaration Scheme 
Downward Bias to GDP Growth 
The sudden decline in money supply and simultaneous increase in bank deposits is going to adversely impact consumption demand in the economy in the short term.
 Auto Secondary Sales May Fall 
 Sales of vehicles in the second hand market for original equipment manufacturers will get impacted, which will have a ripple effect on OEM sales
buyers will not be able to dispose of their old vehicles easily
Demand for Gems and Jewellery to Decline
The demand for gems and jewellery is likely to decline in the next two to three quarters
This would result in weakening in the credit profile of industry players due to the high working capital cycles and high operating leverage
High End Retail Demand to Fall
That may not be great news for those putting their money in banks
demand for credit has slowed down. Therefore, lending rates too will fall but after a gap
ATMs across India turned into prime socialising spots on Wednesday night as Prime Minister Modi surprised everyone by announcing the government’s decision to demonetise the Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes. 
Tensions were high as the clock ticked towards midnight, at which point our Rs 500 and 1000 notes would lose their monetary worth .
In view of the above, it has been decided that all ATMs will remain closed for operations from the mid night of Nov 08, 2016 so that they do not dispense the withdrawn old higher denomination banknotes. 
Narendra Modi may have shocked the nation with his Nov 8 announcement
money has an intrinsic value but this intrinsic value is time dependent.  So keeping tons of cash in suitcases and almirahs in home is bad idea 
but in the long run the intrinsic monetary value is going to decrease over time. So money needs to be circulated. 
Initially when the money comes in a part of it may be kept in cash but slowly over time it is circulated back into the economy.
some of the people who may have concluded a deal in the past 3 to 6 months will certainly be inconvenienced but then again bulk of black money generated
India's decision to scrap high denomination notes is simply the reverse and according to economist Prabhat Patnaik the government's move betrays a lack of understanding of capitalism.   
There will be short run adjustment costs as the old notes are replaced by new ones
Trinamool Congress meets President Pranab Mukherjee, calls note ban super emergency
Congress leaders RS Surjewala, Ashok Chavan Sanjay Nirupam and others detained by police while protesting 
Sushil Kumar Shinde, Shankersinh Vaghela and Bharatsinh Solanki detained by police in Ahmedabad during protest   
Modi babu has become a salesman of plastic currency. Will people eat plastic asks WB CM Mamata Banerjee
 PM promised to bring back black money but couln't do so
 Today is the end of Modi self set 50 day deadline. the country went through a tumultuous situation
A lottery app has been named after Ambedkar by Centre
 This is crude mentality and insult to backward classes
Media should not show queues of Dec 10 
 India lodges strong protest with Pakistan against repeated ceasefire violations
 Medical care is also likely to suffer
Mixed impact on the rural sector 




   
