The demonetisation will lead to a surge in bank deposits
Now, the RBI is expected to make deeper cuts to the repo rate
The immediate currency crunch will put less cash in the hands of consumers which could drive down prices of goods helping push inflation lower That coupled with higher revenues for the government and more deposits at banks could drive the overall interest rate in the financial system lower
Notes of denominations of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 together accounted for about 85 per cent of the total value of banknotes, worth nearly Rs 17 lakh crore, in circulation, according to estimates.
The immediate effect could be a lower than normal currency in circulation, migration towards electronic and online payment channels, more usage of institutional financial channels thus leading to a further controlled inflationary impact which will be positive for the interest rates being cut further,  said Manoj Nagpal, CEO of Outlook Asia Capital
Now, the RBI is expected to make deeper cuts to the repo rate earlier than anticipated, after it lowered it by a quarter percentage point last month.
In line with our expectation, we believe a further cut of 100-150 bps in interest rates will be seen in the next 18 months
Market expert Ajay Bagga expects RBI to cut interest rate at its next policy review meet scheduled for December
The demonetisation will lead to a surge in bank deposits. Mr Bagga estimates current and saving accounts deposits in bank to go up by Rs 4 lakh crore to 5 lakh crore at the least
 A surge in deposits, possible RBI rate cuts in the future and a weak lending activity could put downward pressure on bank fixed deposit rates
 And with more liquidity in the banking system, analysts expect banks to quicken the pace of RBI rate cuts to the borrowers
The government's decision to declare Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000 rupee notes has evoked positive response from economists and industrialists
The decision to scrap Rs 500 and Rs. 1000 notes is very good to combat black money, said Justice M.B. Shah, Chairman of SIT on blackmoney. Those holding untaxed assets, income despite opportunity to declare will suffer, he added.
SBI chairman Arundhati Bhattacharya said that tomorrow banks will be closed for withdrawing these notes from counters and ATMs. We will work round the clock to ensure that customers have a smooth experience. We will strive to restock ATMs at the earliest and make them operational
President Pranab Mukherjee called upon people not to panic and follow Govt guidelines for exchange of Rs 1000 and 500 notes. He welcomed bold step of Government of India which will help unearth unaccounted money  and  counterfeit currency
 BJP president Amit Shah took to twitter to congratulate Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the announcement  PM narendramodi ji's decision to discontinue Rs. 500 and Rs.1000 rupee note will immensely help eliminating the corruption. On behalf of all BJP Karyakartas, I compliment the Central Govt and PM narendramodi for taking tough but timely and path-breaking measures, he tweeted. Announcements made by PM narendramodi are exactly what is needed to uproot corruption, black money, hawala and fake currency rackets. These announcements will go long way in bringing economic prosperity in the lives of the poor, middle class and neo-middle class. We can no longer let corruption  and  black money slow down our development journey. We must create a prosperous India for future generations. The elimination of black money will help boosting the development with justice.
Nirmal Jain, Chairman, IIFL, said  It is a very powerful measure to curb black money. Mr Modi has kept his promise of taking stern measures against black money. It was done some 30 years ago and since then a huge build up of unofficial money had happened. It will have deflationary impact in general and more specifically on real estate prices and make homes affordable and is indirectly a boon to honest tax payers.    
Chanda Kochhar, MD, ICICI Bank It is perhaps the most significant move ever taken to curtail the parallel economy. This move will give a sharp boost to all formal channels of payment which will help formal economy to grow.   
 Manoj Gaur, executive chairman of Jaypee Group told The Hindu, This is a positive step. Sometime in life of a nation, all persons need to rise to the call of their leader. It is one such moment. Menace of blackmoney has to be given a jolt. This is step taken in best possible manner, with no inkling. The Prime Minister and government has worked very well.    
It's a very innovative move. No gain without pain!! Extremely good for Housing Finance Companies as element of cash will reduce and formal credit demand will increase.    
'It is a great move by Mr. Modi to curb money laundering and counterfeiting. This will mark the beginning of digital currency era and bitcoins have a huge potential to grow and eradicate black money totally out of the system. We foresee immense movement in our space'.   
Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog said,  Bold, dynamic  and  brilliant move to end the black money menace. Beginning of the cashless, paperless economy in India.    
Jayaprakash Narayan of Lok Satta  Dramatic, bold, far-reaching first step vs untaxed money.Congrats to PM. Now he must engineer real political reform  and  end vote-buying.Kudos.   
Kunal Bahl, Co-founder  and  CEO, Snapdeal  We welcome the Government's bold and courageous move to weed out black money, which will have significant long term benefits for the economy. With this, the quantum of India's economy moving through the digital pipes will witness massive growth. Both Snapdeal and FreeCharge are committed to supporting all such initiatives.   
Mukesh Butani, Managing Partner, BMR Legal   An unprecedented, bold move leading charge from the front, the PM in the most secretively planned, seamlessly executed a move to root out unaccounted and counterfeit currency. A combination of national security concerns and wider agenda to filter out unaccounted income guided the Government to make this move. Figures of high denomination currency in circulation in past 5 years compared to growth in the economy pointed towards indicators of unaccounted money in circulation. Timing was perfect - a month after closure of the income disclosure week and a week after Diwali such that the impact of short term disruption in festive period is minimised.”   
Demonetization is a very bold Decision taken by Indian government for Curbing all Black Money in India . Major Aim of Demonetization is Making India A Cash less Society .   
Demonetisation is a process by which a series of currency will not be legal tender. The series of currency will not acceptable as valid currency. The same thing happens with the Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000 note demonetization.   
There will be excess fake currency in the economy is main reason of demonetisation. 


Attack On Black Money Holders   
   People who possess huge amounts of black money in hard cash are at a complete loss now .   
   Their black money in hard cash is now a pile of trash.   
   Now If a Black money holder Want to Deposit Money in Bank Account Than heand she Has to Show ID .   
   Most of the fake currencies used to be be in the denominations of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000 .   
   By banning Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000 notes, Modiji has busted all these unethical rackets completely .   
   Now There Will be no use These Money   
   End Of Terrorist Funding   
Huge sums of money especially in hard cash in the denominations of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000 was used to fund Islamic terrorists , Naxalites and other non-state actors   
   Now , these Organizations will suffer from shortage of funds .   
   Most of These terrorist ,Maoist Organization Used These Funds For Buying Arms and Weapons   
   Buying arms is an extremely difficult task now after this ban .   
   Now there Will be More Transparency In Real Estate Sector   
   End of Huge Donations   
   Huge amounts of donation that is taken in the private education and healthcare sectors would be stopped .   
   Schools, engineering and medical colleges and hospitals    private ones  used to take huge amounts of money as donations especially in the form of hard cash in the denominations of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000 .StudyDhaba.Com   
   These money-minded people running these institutions won’t be able to make any easy money now .   
   Same applies to the real estate sector.   
   Towards A Cashless Economy   
   While it is practically impossible to have a 100 percent cashless economy , the proportion of hard cash in the economy will decrease and our economy will get more digitized .   
   This will result in greater transparency .   
   Now government has put Some limitation for Cash Withdraw from bank Accounts. People Will go for online payments ,They Will Use PayTM Or other Online payment Companies For Buying goods or Making payments.   
   More Use of Debit and Credit Card   
   Hawala Transactions End   
   Most Hawala transactions used to be carried out in the denominations of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000 .   
   With this ban , Modiji has delivered a fatal blow to the unethical Hawala traders as they can’t trade anymore using denominations of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000 .   
emporarily stall the circulation of large volume of counterfeit currency   
   It would curb the funding for anti-social elements like smuggling, terrorism, espionage, etc.   
   Effects on Money Supply   
   With the older 500 and 1000 Rupees notes being scrapped, until the new 500 and 2000 Rupees notes get widely circulated in the market, money supply is expected to reduce in the short run.   
   To the extent that black money   which is not counterfeit  does not re-enter the system, reserve money and hence money supply will decrease permanently.   
   However gradually as the new notes get circulated in the market and the mismatch gets corrected, money supply will pick up.   
   Effects On Demand   
With cash transactions facing a reduction, alternative forms of payment will see a surge in demand. 
Digital transaction systems, E wallets and apps, online transactions using E banking, usage of Plastic money   Debit and Credit Cards , etc. will definitely see substantial increase in demand   
   This Will Bring More transparency In System And You can Easily track Online Money Transactions.Demonetization Pdf – Pros and Cons of Demonetization Rs 500,1000   
Finance Minister Arun Jaitley said that demonetisation would clean the complete economic system, increase the size of economy and revenue base. He mentioned the demonetisation along with the upcoming Goods and Services Tax   GST  as   an attempt to change the spending habit and lifestyle.   91     
   By and large, international response was positive which saw the move as a bold crackdown on corruption.
International Monetary Fund   IMF  issued a statement supporting Modi's efforts to fight corruption by the demonetisation policy.
Chinese state media Global Times praised the move and termed it as   fierce fight against black money and corruption.
Former Prime Minister of Finland and Vice-President of European Commission Jyrki Katainen welcomed the demonetisation move stressing that bringing transparency will strengthen Indian economy. 111   112  BBC's South Asia Correspondent Justin Rowlatt in his article praised the move for its secrecy and success and elaborated on reason behind demonetisation
Singapore-based paper The Independent published a laudatory article on the move titled   Modi does a Lee Kuan Yew to stamp out corruption in India.   Lee Kuan Yew was the Singaporean Prime Minister and is considered the architect of modern Singapore.   From making up his mind to rolling it out, a new Lee Kuan Yew is born in India. It will be reflected in the legacy of this Prime Minister,  
 In the first four days after the announcement of the step, about  3 trillion   USD47 billion  in the form of old  500 and  1,000 banknotes had been deposited in the banking system and about  500 billion   US$7.8 billion  had been dispensed via withdrawals from bank accounts, ATMs as well as exchanges over the bank counters. Within these four days, the banking system has handled about 18 crore   180 million  transactions. 39   The State Bank of India reported to have received more than  300 billion   US$4.7 billion  in bank deposit in first two days after demonetisation. 175   176   177   A spike in the usage of debit card and credit card post demonetisation was also reported. 178     
   Between November 10 and November 27, banks reported exchange and deposits of demonetised banknotes worth  Rs 8.45 trillion   USD130 billion    exchange of 339.48 billion   USD 5.3 billion  and deposits of  8.11 trillion   US$130 billion  . During this period, an amount of 2.16 lakh crore   USD 34 billion  had been withdrawn by people from their accounts.  
   In Malda, a district believed to be a transit-point for fake Indian currencies, a large sum of cash deposits in dormant accounts were also reported. According to The Economic Times, more than 80 percent of fake currency in India originates from Malda district in West Bengal 
   Human trafficking   
   Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi and others working to fight human trafficking said that the note ban had led to a huge fall in sex trafficking, but that the trade had already begun rebounding by the following month. 182   Satyarthi said the demonetisation would be effective in combating exploitation of children as well as corruption and would be a great obstacle to traffickers. 183   However, 2 months later he expressed his disappointment on Rs 2000 notes being pushed into human trafficking in absence of other concrete steps. 184     
   Radical groups   
   The Demonetisation has badly hit Maoist and Naxalites as well. The surrender rate has reached its highest since the demonetisation is announced. It is said that the money these organisations have collected over the years have left with no value and it has caused them to reach to this decision. 185     
   The move also reportedly crippled Communist guerrilla groups   Naxalites  financing through money laundering. On 10 November the police arrested a petrol pump owner at Ranchi when he reportedly tried to deposit  2.5 billion, belonging to a person affiliated with the banned Communist Party of India   Maoist . 188   According to Chhattisgarh Police demonetisation has affected the Naxalite activities. It is reported that insurgents have stashed more than  70 billion in the Bastar region. 187   189   190     
This led to the acceleration of installation of POS machines
According to data of Pine Labs, the demand for its POS machines doubled after the decision. The company stated that the debit card transactions rose by 108 percent and credit card transactions by 60 percent on 9 November 2016. 
 More people began using cards 267   and e-wallets, and the demand for point of sales  
 POS  or card swipe machines increased. 
 This led to the acceleration of installation of POS machines .
 According to data of Pine Labs, the demand for its POS machines doubled after the decision. 
The company stated that the debit card transactions rose by 108 percent and credit card transactions by 60 percent on 9 November 2016.
Income tax filing increase
The number of IT returns filed for 2016-17 grew by 25 per cent to 2.82 crore, and the advance tax collections during that period rose 41.8 percent over the 1 year period, as increased number of individuals filed their tax returns post demonetisation. The Indian officials said. The number of returns filed as on August 5 stands at 28292955 as against 22697843 filed during the corresponding period of the fiscal year 2017, registering an increase of 24.7 percent compared to growth rate of 9.9 percent in the previous year.
Advance tax collections of personal income tax  as on August 5 2017 showed a growth of about 41.79 percent over the corresponding period in FY 2017.
 Personal income tax under self assessment tax  grew at 34.25 percent over the corresponding period in Financial year 2017
As the use of the demonetised notes had been allowed by the government for the payment of municipal and local body taxes, it led to people using the demonetised Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes to pay large amounts of outstanding and advance taxes
As a result, revenue collections of the local civic bodies jumped.
The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation reported collecting about Rs 1.6 billion  in cash payments of outstanding and advance taxes, within 4 days  
The tax collection by local bodies have surged over 260 percent and more than 15000 crore more after 14 days of demonetisation
The total indirect tax collection rose to 14.2 percent only in the month of December according to Finance Minister Arun Jaitley  

In March 2017, it was alleged that more than 1 lakh crore in high value deposits of more than 2.5 lakh were deposited without any record of PAN.  
   Income tax raids and cash seizures   
   The Finance Ministry instructed all revenue intelligence agencies to join the crackdown on forex traders, hawala operators and jewellers besides tracking movement of demonetised currency notes
 It was reported that the Prime Minister's Office and the Prime Minister Modi himself were directly coordinating the raids conducted by the Income Tax, Enforcement Directorate and other agencies.
 As of 23 December, PMO received around 700 calls giving information about black money and it directly forwarded the information to various law enforcement agencies for further action   
 Income Tax departments raided various illegal tax-evasive businesses in Delhi, Mumbai, Chandigarh, Ludhiana and other cities that traded with demonetised currencyThe Enforcement Directorate issued several FEMA notices to forex and gold traders. Large sum of cash in defunct notes were seized in different parts of the country.[354][355][356][357][358][359] In Chhattisgarh liquid cash worth of Rs 4.4 million  was seized.   
 As of December 28, official sources said that the Income Tax department detected over Rs 41.72 billion of un-disclosed income and seized new notes worth Rs 1 billion  as part of its country-wide operations. The department carried out a total of 983 search, survey and enquiry operations under the provisions of the Income Tax Act and has issued 5027 notices to various entities on charges of tax evasion and hawala-like dealings. The department also seized cash and jewellery worth over Rs 5.49 billion  out of which the new currency seized (majority of them Rs 2000 notes) is valued at about Rs 1 billion . The department also referred a total of 477 cases to other agencies like the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate  to probe other financial crimes like money laundering, disproportionate assets and corruption 
   In a period of four months from 9 November 2016 to 28 February 2017, CBDT claims to have detected an undisclosed income of over Rs 93.34 billion through more than 2362 search, seizure and survey actions by Income Tax department.  
   Seizures of Rs 2000 notes     

Huge amounts of cash in the form of new notes were seized all over the country after the demonetisation.
As of December 2016, over 4 crore in new banknotes of Rs 2000 were seized from four persons in Bangalore.
 Rs 33 lakh in Rs 2000 notes were recovered from Manish Sharma, an expelled BJP leader in West Bengal and Rs 1.5 crore was seized in Goa 
900 notes of the new Rs 2000 notes were seized from a BJP leader in Tamil Nadu.[371]
 Around Rs 10 crore in new notes were seized in Chennai.[372]   
Segments, such as real estate, gold and the informal sector, where cash transactions play a big role will bear the maximum brunt. 
Income Declaration Scheme 2016 unearths Rs 65250 crore of hitherto Undeclared Income and Assets
Based on the 45 percent tax applicable on the income disclosed, according to the scheme, the government will get Rs 29362.5 crore
Cash Economy To Witness Contraction
The currency of the aforesaid denominations constitutes around 86 percent of the total value of the currency in circulation  thus its impact on the cash economy will be significant. The key segments of the economy where cash transactions play a vital role are real estate/construction, gold and the informal sectors. The role of cash transaction in case of real estate and gold is mostly dubious, however in case of the informal sectors it is the lifeline.   
Positive for banking sector
A large amount of cash in circulation will be brought within the purview of the formal banking system by way of deposits
This is structurally a positive for banks as part of this cash gets deposited as current account and savings account (CASA) deposits, reducing banks dependence on higher cost borrowing. 
Deposit deployment remains a challenge in the short to medium term due to the current tepid demand for credit, thus pushing deposit rates lower.   
The unorganised segment will be hit particularly hard given the large proportion of unaccounted inventory and high proportion of cash sales.
 Over the medium-term the organised industry players will benefit at the cost of the unorganised players. 
Gold imports through the unofficial channel are likely to reduce. 
There will be no significant impact on jewellery exporters because it is mostly an organised market and sales are against invoices.   
 As of 10 December, Rs 242 crore in new notes had been seized.[373] It was noted in the media that while people were dying in queues to obtain a few thousand rupees in cash, persons with the right connections were able to amass crores of rupees in new notes, thus rendering the demonetisation exercise futile.[373][374][375]   
 It was announced by the government that the seized notes will be brought into the mainstream as soon as possible to ease out the cash problem. 
Earlier, agencies kept all seized material, including cash seizures, in their strong rooms as evidence till the case was adjudicated by the courts. 
The seized money was then deposited into the Consolidated Fund of India. Sometimes, income tax cases took years to resolve, still all seized material was kept in safe lockers of the tax department.
State Bank of India reduced rates on deposits from one year to 455 days to 6.90 percent, down 15 basis points  
lending rates are likely to follow suit in a few weeks, possibly giving sluggish credit expansion a much-needed boost and shoring up growth.
The bank has seen huge inflow of deposits
Lower interest rates should, all else being equal, produce a stimulus to the economy.
This entire extinguished or disappeared black money will be profit to the RBI, and will be transferred to the central government as dividend
 Any deposit that is significantly in excess of Rs 2.5 lakh and reflects an abnormal rise in income is likely to be scrutinized and subjected to a 200 percent penalty
A sharp increase in income that does not seem consistent with past patterns will need an explanation 
Penalties can be challenged but scrutiny of large cash deposits will be on the cards over the next few weeks
in the wake of the governments attempt to fight the reality of hoarded black money
it was a government initiative to curb financing of terrorism through the proceeds of fake Indian currency notes and use of such funds for subversive activities such as espionage, smuggling of arms, drugs, and other contraband into India.
 Primarily, it aims to hit hard at the existence and circulation of black money in the country.
The ATMs may resume functioning from November 11, 2016 upon their recalibration to dispense bank notes of only Rs 50 and Rs 100 denominations.      
It will curb black money 
It will curb Terrorism
It will wipe out Fake Currency
Improve monetary transmission and reduce lending rates
A rise in deposit base will allow banks to lower the blended cost of funds as higher deposits help to replace the high cost of borrowing and lower overall cost of funds
Support government finances
Positive impacts from a bond market perspective  
Improvement in bank deposit base leads to higher SLR
On the supply side, with tax buoyancy seeing an improvement, supply of gsecs is likely to get more rationalized 
Economists have long talked about "helicopter drop" of currency
The gains will be a one-time tax on black money and a possible disincentive for future black money accumulation
SBI chief says situation will normalise by Feb
More than Rs 2 lakh deposited in over 60 lakh bank accounts post demonetisation
Nearly Rs 80000 crore of repayment of loans done in cash post demonetisation
Rs 25000 crore deposited in cash in dormant bank accounts post demonetisation
Petrol pumps will continue to accept card payments post January 13,
MDR charges on card payments for fuel purchase will not be passed on to customers
For most states VAT collections have increased says Finance Minister Arun Jaitley 
Direct taxes for the first 3 quarters has moved up, indirect taxes significantly moved up, Jaitley says   
In December 2016 compared to last December, the customs has actually declined, it is 6.3 percent
 Central excise increased 31.6 percent in December 2016 as compared to December 2015 
 From April to December this year the increase in direct tax is 12.01 percent and indirect tax is 25 percent, compared to last year, Arun Jaitley says   
The mass scale and manner in which some people have indulged in currency racketeering itself justifies the PM's decision
Since there's been efforts by GoI to eliminate where it can, the black money and its users in India, revisiting of this agreements was important.   
After 2019, the entire capital gains tax will come to India. 
Finance minister Arun Jaitley asks banks to promote digital banking in mission mode   
The department will keep track of every individual, their PAN card detail, and tally it with tax filing done during the end of the year
 Keep in mind that the Income Tax department will be constantly on check for transactions of cash exchanges beyond Rs 2.5 lakh or deposit in savings account 
the possible positive effects cannot be negated
 Banks are expected to witness a surge in deposits.Especially, from people and businesses who have a lot of legally earned money

   